# all-data-ever
Collection of published, open access, publicly accessible astronomical data, specifically for X-ray observations of galaxy groups and clusters and primarily useful for theorists and simulators who want datasets with which to compare/validate.

## Motivation
As a computational astrophysicist working with cosmological simulations of galaxy formation, finding reduced observational datasets with which I can compare the results of my simulations can be both challenging and time-consuming. Some publications contain tables of individual values per astronomical object for all datasets (that need to be copied into a file or script), while others only have averaged or sparse number-data reported, and still others only have graphical plots. Further, desired metadata or accompanying data may not be explicitly reported or (as is common and accepted) is referenced in citations, which must then be followed through vary sources. A compilation of such reduced observational datasets that could be filtered based on various properties would be - in my experience - a worthwhile endeavor and quite useful for the field of astronomy, especially graduate students and researchers new to the field.

## Description
This website is starting as a simple space to locate and grab (most likely smaller) observational astronomical datasets. These could be scaling relations lifted from publications, fitting equations with their parameters, detailed observations of individual astronomical objects, data published without a catalogue or associated numerical table for which I have digitized the data from plots or have contacted the authors for the data files, etc... The website is organized by publication with attached data files in various formats, including header files/metadata/"characterizing properties" (e.g. redshifts, halo/galaxy masses, etc..., which are not components of the core dataset(s)) that may be linked from other publications. Each publication/dataset can have tags describing various aspects of the datasets, such as telescope/instrument (e.g. XRISM, XMM-Newton, Chandra, Suzaku), wavelength range/waveband (e.g. X-ray vs optical, 0.2-5 keV vs 2-10 keV), "hierarchy" scale (e.g. mass or temperature range of the objects; groups, clusters, or individual galaxies), redshift range, what is measured (e.g. temperature, density, abundance/metallicity, dynamics), "type" of data (e.g. scaling relations, distribution functions, global values, radial profiles, spectra). The posted datasets do not include proprietary data or unreduced catalogues/raw data.

## Important
Full references are associated with all datasets on this website; this may include multiple citations if the given dataset requires information from various publications. PLEASE, if you use the data, include the citation(s) in your publication. It is not required to cite this website; however, an acknowledgement would go a long way in improving its reach and usefulness.
